README.md, before:

# CRIS_single-sample

The work presented in this repository allows to apply single-sample classifiers for CRIS on colorectal cancer data. The work has been organized in the CRIS_single-sample Rproject folder. In order to use the functionalities provided by the source code, some preliminary steps must be executed. Furthermore, we recall that, since we have based the research inside an R project, any considered path is relative to the working directory of the project itself. 

The installation required is summarized in the next steps:

1. Download and install R 4.0
2. Download and install RStudio
3. Download and install Rtools.
4. Run the command
	        
  >  <code>    writeLines('PATH="${RTOOLS40_HOME}\\usr\\bin;${PATH}"', con = "~/.Renviron") </code>

5. Restart R and check that path of command is returned with
  
  >  <code>    Sys.which("make") </code>
  
6. In RStudio, open the project with File > Open project and open the CRIS_single-sample project folder (it must contain the .Rproj file).

7. Install the required libraries by running the script in the src folder of the project:

  >  <code>    source("src/install_libraries.r") </code>
  
8. Load the required libraries by running the script in the src folder of the project:

  >  <code>    source("src/load_libraries.r") </code>
  
*NB*: The step 7 must be repeated whenever a new R session starts, otherwise errors of missing libraries are reported. In order to understand how to apply the implemented functionalities, we suggest to look at the R notebooks (.Rmd files) organized within the *vignette* folder.

Commit message:

[FEATURE]: vignettes for data pipelines and reference loading
Readme updated

README.md, after:

# CRIS_single-sample

The work presented in this repository allows to apply single-sample classifiers for CRIS on colorectal cancer data. The work has been organized in the CRIS_single-sample Rproject folder. In order to use the functionalities provided by the source code, some preliminary steps must be executed. Furthermore, we recall that, since we have based the research inside an R project, any considered path is relative to the working directory of the project itself. 

The installation required is summarized in the next steps:

1. Download and install R 4.0
2. Download and install RStudio
3. Download and install Rtools.
4. Run the command
	        
  >  <code>    writeLines('PATH="${RTOOLS40_HOME}\\usr\\bin;${PATH}"', con = "~/.Renviron") </code>

5. Restart R and check that path of command is returned with
  
  >  <code>    Sys.which("make") </code>
  
6. Clone the repository; in RStudio, open the project with File > Open project and open the CRIS_single-sample folder (it contains the .Rproj file) located in the repository folder.

7. Install the required libraries by running the script in the src folder of the project:

  >  <code>    source("src/install_libraries.r") </code>
  
8. Load the required libraries by running the script in the src folder of the project:

  >  <code>    source("src/load_libraries.r") </code>

9. Require the *data.zip* file containing all the data and extract it as it is in the project folder.

  
*NB*: The step 8 must be repeated whenever a new R session starts, otherwise errors of missing libraries are reported. In order to understand how to apply the implemented functionalities, we suggest to look at the R notebooks (.Rmd files) organized within the *vignette* folder.

The reference work (NTP classifier, TSP classifier, published results of NTP and TSP, CRIS signature) is *Isella C, Brundu F, Bellomo SE, Galimi F, Zanella E, Porporato R, Petti C, Fiori A, Orzan F, Senetta R, Boccaccio C, Ficarra E, Marchionni L, Trusolino L, Medico E, Bertotti A. Selective analysis of cancer-cell intrinsic transcriptional traits defines novel clinically relevant subtypes of colorectal cancer. Nat Commun. 2017 May 31;8:15107. doi: 10.1038/ncomms15107. PMID: 28561063; PMCID: PMC5499209.*
